FiveL for Win32 Release Notes

3.2.3, Unreleased

    *** DO NOT MAKE NEW RELEASE BINARIES WITHOUT TALKING TO ERIC.  The
	version numbering system is changing so that the Mac and Windows
	engines will have the same version number.  You can check in
	code like usual, of course.  Thank you. ***

	(1) Added new option to 5L.prefs to optionally allow multiple
	instances of 5L to run.

	# Allow multiple instances of FiveL (yes, NO)
	multiple_instances = "yes"	

	(2) Merged changes from 3.2.0.1 into the development trunk.

	(3) Updated VC++ project files to reflect movement of Common library 
	(up one level).

	(4) Added support for smart quotes, m-dashes, ellipses and HTML entities.
	Everywhere that '\&' appears in a script, it needs to be replaced with
	'\&amp;'.

	(5) Ongoing work on native typography using FreeType 2.

	(6) Complete overhaul of the Crypt library.  It now supports streaming 
	reads and writes.  Many function names were changed.  The encryption 
	header was modified to include signature, payload, and timestamp.
	NOTE: Previous versions of 5LDB will be incompatible because of this 
	change.  

	(7) Added CryptTool, a command-line utility to encrypt/decrypt scripts,
	 5LDB, etc.  Run with no options for help.

	(8) Modified IndexFile to automatically detect encrypted scripts and 
	use a CryptStream for I/O if detected.

	(9) Added TestSuite project to house FiveL unit testing.  Added some unit
	tests for CryptStream. 

3.2.2, Wednesday, February 27, 2002, 1:12 PM

	Bug #613 - Changed calculation of _INCR_Y to include descenders
	(part or letter that goes below baseline).
	
	NOTE: All 5L scripts will likely need to be updated to reflect
	this change. 

3.2.0.1, Tuesday, February 26, 2002, 2:27 PM (patch to 3.2.0)

	Bugs #497 and #613 addressed.
	Quick fix to change the delimiter for underlining text.
	The pipe character ('|') is now used for underlining.

3.2.1, Tuesday, February 19, 2002, 12:15 PM

	Bugs #494 and #495 are addressed in this update.

	(1) Introduced the 5L.prefs configuration file.  This is a 
	configuration file designed for developers and should not be
	distributed to end-users.

	Initial parameters/values that may be specified in 5L.prefs
	are listed below (defaults in bold):

	db_type = (ENCRYPTED, clear)
	db_writes = (write, close, EXIT)
	mode = (window, FULLSCREEN)
	redoscript = (on, OFF)
	debug_log = (on, OFF)

	Defaults are used whenever a parameter is not specified or in the
	absence of the 5L.prefs file.

	(2) The 5L.prefs file eliminates the need for having two FiveL 
	executables which were known as 5L_d.exe and FiveL.exe.  From this
	point forward, FiveL.exe will be the sole executable.

	--- Engine Developer Notes ---

	(3) Dozens of compile-time switches were removed in favor of
	having a single executable and parameters in the 5L.prefs file.

	(4) CryptStream was updated to support encrypting/decrypting any file.
	
	(5) Compile-time switches that disabled encryption in the debug executable
	were removed and clear file streaming is no longer supported by CryptStream.
	LFileBundle was updated accordingly to do clear file streaming on its own.

3.2.0, Thursday, February 07, 2002, 3:21 PM

	Stable build based on v3.1.1

3.1.2, Unreleased

	Backed out changes for -D command-line option (#531).
	The DLS client was fixed and this option will not be needed.

3.1.1, Thursday, January 24, 2002, 2:02 PM

	Fixed bug (#531) in -D command-line option causing
	system registry read error.

3.1.0, Wednesday, January 23, 2002, 1:54 PM

	Only a single instance of the FiveL executable may run.

	New command-line option "-D" used to lookup installation
	directory in the system registry.
	Note: Underscores will be parsed as spaces(" ").
	Ex: FiveL -D HIV_Prevention_Counseling

	Slow down the flash on buttpcx so it can be seen on
	fast machines.  A 200 mS pause was added.

	Several bugfixes to prevent possible crashes when error 
	conditions occur.

3.00, Build 10, Tuesday, Sept 12, 2001, 10:12 AM
		
	Fixed bug in updating the timestamp in the global 
	user header of 5LDB.

3.00, Build 9, Thursday, May 31, 2001, 03:05 PM

	A bug in $_date was found which caused the year to be -1
	instead of 01 for year 2001.  
	
	Modifications were made to the 5LDB to support global files.

	New command was added to tell 5L which files are global.  Global
	files are those that can be accessed by any user.
	(globalfiles file1 <file2> ... <fileN>)

3.00, Build 8, Thursday, May 10, 2001, 02:00 PM

	Fixed a bug that was causing synchronous preloading not
	to wait for the specified "min preload time". 

3.00, Build 7, Monday, May 07, 2001

	Fixed a screen refresh problem that occured when using
	QT5 and network streaming media.

3.00, Build 6, Thursday, May 03, 2001, 05:00 PM

	First build using Quicktime 5 libraries.

3.00, Build 5, Tuesday, May 01, 2001, 02:08 PM

	Fixed a synchronization problem where if the media that is actually
	played following a preload command is NOT the file that's
      been preloaded, wait command does not function properly.
	
	Permanent fix for setting application window title
	(setWindowTitle (HIV Virtual Clinic))

	Fixed Win98 cursor problem which occured when switching windows
	(e.g. using the browse command).

3.00, Build 4, Friday, April 27, 2001
	
	Quick temporary fix for application title.

3.00, Build 3, Monday, April 16, 2001, 02:49 PM

	Incorporated lost black screen fix (from 10/23/00) caused by some 
	video clips not blacking the screen properly.

3.00, Build 2, Monday, April 09, 2001, 09:49 AM
	
	Turned off 5LDB encryption for Debug builds.
	
	Fixed RedoScript Problem.

	Fixed open file bug where $_ERROR was not being set properly.
	
	Adjusted line and box functions to eliminate inconsistencies between
	Win32 and Mac 5L.

3.00, Build 1, Monday, March 12, 2001, 12:08:00 PM

	Compile flags allow the 5LDB and legacy file format to be interchanged
	at build time without code modifications.

	Encryption was added to the 5LDB file.

	In an effort to make 5L compatible with DLS and enhance security, file
 	structure was changed to store all 5L files in a single database file
	(5LDB). This change should be invisible to the 5L scriptor, except for
	the fact that only file is now written.

	TVW has taken over maintenance of the Win32 FiveL codebase.

2.01, Build 5, Tuesday, August 08, 2000, 4:20:04 PM

- Added browse command that takes a URL as a parameter and brings up the user's
	preferred browser on that URL.
	syntax: (browse URL)

	This command will put the release version of the engine in the background.
	It will no longer take over the screen and will be minimized. When the user
	reactives the engine (by clicking on the task bar) the black background
	will reappear.

	While doing the work for this command I also enabled normal Windows
	task switching (alt-tab) to put the engine in the background.

- Tell QuickTime not to use DirectDraw when starting up. This should not 
	mess with the user's QuickTime settings it will only make sure that 
	DirectDraw is not use during this session.
	We do this because we noticed flashes before playing clips on some
	machines (easy to reproduct on recent Dell laptops running Win98).

- Added checkurl command to make sure a URL is accessible (both the server
	and the resource itself.
	syntax: (checkurl url [var_name])
		url - a url of the form: http://mccay.dartmouth.edu/XXX
		var_name - the name of the variable that should be assigned
			the return code from the server
	_ERROR will be set to one of the following values:
		0 - the resource was found
		-2 - the resource was not found
		-3 - the server is inaccessible (or some other problem)
	_CheckURLResult will be set to the server result code
		200 - the resource was found
		404 - the resource was not found (but the server is up!)
		400 - bad request (server down or bad URL?)
		lots of other values possible (check out 
			http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616.html

- The engine will print out the name of the last good card (or header or macro)
	to the debug log when it encounters a syntax error.

- messed around with QuickTime settings

- changed the behavior of the QuickTime "globals"
	_QuickTimeVideoPreload
	_QuickTimeVideoCycles
	_QuickTimeAudioPreload
	_QuickTimeAudioCycles
	Now all of these variables are set to their default values
	when the engine starts up. Thereafter they are under script
	control, the engine will never again assign the default
	values.

2.01, Build 4, Monday June 5, 2000, 12:07 PM

- changed the input command to print out more characters
	- these are the characters that will be printed out
		- letter (A-Z, a-z)
		- digit (0-9)
		- space
		- "_:.-+|{}()?@#$%^&*~<>/\=,"

- added a variable to hold the QuickTime version
	_QuickTimeVersion
		This will be an integer value corresponding to the QuickTime
	version installed on the user's machine. 

2.01, Build 3, Thursday May 25, 08:56 AM

- Fixed the unlock command. Effects and times were being ignored.

- Fixed bug in _date special variable that made the year show up as
	100. Now _date will result in a two digit year (00, 01, etc.) and
	_longdate will always result in a four digit year (2000, etc.).

- Added variables to tweak QuickTime streaming performance
	_QuickTimeVideoPreload -> default 2000, controls how much
		of the video clip is downloaded before starting to play
	_QuickTimeVideoCycles -> default 50, controls how many
		cycles the engine will execute before actually starting
		the clip to prevent flashes and burps
	_QuickTimeAudioPreload -> default 500, same as video but 
		for audio
	_QuickTimeAudioCycles -> default 20, same as video but
		for audio
	NOTE: Setting these variables to 0 (or not defining them) will
		cause the default values to be used. Setting them to -1
		will cause a value of 0 to be used for the setting.
	NOTE2: These are only for debugging the engine and should
		not be in the final engine.

2.01, Build 2, Tuesday May 23, 2000, 11:05 AM

- Palettes will now only be .bmp files, even if an extension is
	used for the loadpic command. 
	e.g. (loadpic login.png 0 0 pal)
	This will load login.png for the graphic and login.bmp for 
	the palette.

- Added variables for graphics:
	_BaseGraphicsLocation - this location will be used for all graphics
		overriding the "Graphics" directory in the installation 
		directory. This variable should have a '/' on the end, the 
		engine will not put it there for you.
	_BaseGraphicsExtension - this extension (e.g. ".png") will be added
		to all graphics that don't have an extension

- Added the sync flag to the preload command (see below)

- Added the _PreloadedVideo and _PreloadedAudio variables
	These variables will get set whenever the preload command is
	used. They will contain the name of the clip that was last
	passed to the preload command. They will NOT contain the full
	path to the clip as resolved by the engine.

- Put the preload command back in there
	(preload clip_name [nap] [sync])
	both audio and video
	takes a nap parameter, if the preload command doesn't take that long then
	go into a nap for the remaining time (parameter in tenths of seconds)
	- also can preload multiple clips (audio and video) at once
	- for video it will only preload when something isn't playing, otherwise
		it will just sit there
	- for audio, it will preload, this can cause some hiccups when playing from the
		network -> maybe we should make it like video
	- if a clip_name of "0" is passed in, it will be ignored (but the 
		nap will be honored)
	NOTE: the clip_name is used to identify the clip once it has
		been preloaded. If you issue another preload command
		with the same clip name it will be ignored. This could
		potentially be a problem if you have two different
		locations with the same clip names. If you change
		_BaseVideoLocation and call preload for the second
		time with the same clip name you will not get the
		results you are looking for.
	- the sync flag is used to tell the engine to not execute any more
		commands until the preload is complete. This is necessary as the 
		engine will otherwise do the preload in the background and continue
		to execute commands in the foreground.

- Return command, will stop executing a macro or card

- fixed the redoscript command so that keybinds are preserved
	(they were being tossed)

- may have fixed the (somewhat phantom) problem of flashing before playing
	a video clip from the network, one of the preload routines will draw a 
	rectangle where the movie will play, now the movie box is moved way
	off screen until just before it is ready to play (the problem was made
	worse by the preload command)

2.01, Build 1

- Changed the behavior of two of the log files: 5L.log and
	MissingMedia.log. Now they will both append messages on
	to the end of the existing file rather than starting
	a new file every time the engine is run. A new session
	will start off with a time stamp line to identify it.

- Added the checkvol command.
	Syntax:	(checkvol volume_name real_path [no_volume])
		volume_name - The volume name to look for. The engine
			will check all kinds of volumes (floppies, cd-roms,
			zip/jazz disks, etc.).
		real_path - The name of a variable to receive the path 
			to use to access this volume if the volume is found. 
			If the volume isn't found this will be left blank.
		no_volume - The name of a card to jump to if this
			volume isn't found. If this parameter is left
			blank then the engine will not jump.

- The _ERROR variable will be set to -2 when a media element
	(audio or video) is not	found. The _FileNotFound variable
	will contain the full path to the element that wasn't found.

- All missing media is logged to a MissingMedia.log file.

- When streaming media through HTTP, the engine will monitor
	how much of the stream has been buffered. When the buffer
	runs close to dry, the engine will pause the media briefly
	to buffer more data and then resume. This results in a brief
	flash of black when playing video but it keeps the audio
	and video in sync (or trys to).

- Video clips are now located using the
	_BaseVideoLocation variable. This variable should be set to
	a path to be prepended to each clip passed to the video or
	playqtfile commands unless a full path or URL is given.
	The path can either be an HTTP URL or
	a local path. For a local path, a drive specifier of CD:
	will get translated into a real CD drive letter.
	A path can also be a partial path that will have the 
	installation directory prepended to it.
	Examples:
		(set _BaseVideoLocation (http://mccay/program_media/HIV/Cinepak/Side%201/))
		(video 061_004.MOV 0)

		(set _BaseVideoLocation CD:\media\ ) # need the space at the end!
		(video 061_004.mov 0)

		(video CD:\media\061_004.mov 0)	# don't use _BaseVideoLocation

		(video media\061_004.mov 0)	# look in the installation directory

	Note:
		Remember that URLs and the name of clips to be streamed through HTTP
		are case sensitive!
		Remember to put on the trailing slash for paths and URLs, the engine 
		won't do it for you.

- Audio clips are now located using the
	_BaseAudioLocation variable or the _BaseVideoLocation variable if 
	_BaseAudioLocation has not been set. As with video, if the audio or
	playqtfile commands are given a full path or URL then this variable
	will not be used.

- implemented the Redoscript command (only in the Debug engine)
	It has the same syntax as the Mac engine:
		(redoscript card_name)

- .idx files are no longer used, the .scr files will be parsed
	on the fly to generate the index information

- deprecated the preroll command (all movies are prerolled before
	playing anyway)

- the playqtfile command now accepts an optional origin parameter that
	can replace the playqtrect command, it acts the same way in that it
	only applies for the movie that is about to play
	syntax: (playqtfile file [frame] [palette] [origin])

- added the video command as a way to play video clips
	syntax: (video path [frame] [palette] [origin])
	path can either be just a file name or a full path or URL to
	a movie file
	this should replace the playqtfile command eventually
	ex:
		(video c2lv06) # play cl2v06.mov in the current media directory
		(video http://mccay/program_media/Cancer_Sx/Final/c2lv06.mov)
			# play the clip using http streaming
		
2.00, Build 21, 
- The about box in the debug version now correctly states
the version of the engine you are running (it had been stuck
on 2.00, Build 3 for a while).

2.00, Build 20, Friday, January 07, 2000, 10:50:06 AM
- New global variables:
	_EngineBuildStr - string that identifies the engine build
		this string will have the format:
			5L for Win32 2.00, Build 20
	_EngineBuild - number that identifies the engine build
		this number will have the format:
			(major number * 10000) + (minor number * 100) + build
			eg. 20020 for 2.00 build 20

- The engine will now quit with an alert if QuickTime is not 
	installed.

- On some systems the engine was not able to check for the CD
if the CD Player application was open. This was due to the CD 
device being opened in an unshareable mode by the CD Player. Now
the engine will correctly handle this situation.

2.00, Build 19, Thursday, January 06, 2000, 11:29:49 AM
- Changed the way that palettes are handled. Now all palettes
should be found in the "Palettes" directory, not the "Graphics"
directory. It is assumed that all palettes are in BMP files. We
may change this later to include other formats. One thing to note,
.BMP will be added to the end of the name of a palette ONLY if 
there isn't already an extension. If you specify the following:
(loadpic xxx.png 0 0 pal)
This will NOT work as we can't extract the palette out of PNG
files yet. So, to be safe, if you use (loadpic ... pal) do
not use and extension. This will add .pic for the graphic and
.bmp for the palette. 

- Fixed the problem with QT graphics that was preventing us
from using anything other than .BMP files for matted images.
Now you can use any of the supported formats (PNG, PIC, etc.).
IMPORTANT: the transparent color must be pure white. We used
to use an off-white for Windows, this will no longer work.

- 8-bit support is about half-way there. One nice thing is
that the system palette will be correctly restored by 5L now.
Still QuickTime images and movies do not work. Hopefully this
will be fixed soon.

2.00, Build 18, Wednesday, December 22, 1999, 2:50:22 PM
- Change the built-in cursors to the hand cursors that
Scott made. Also took out the up, down and backup
cursors. Here are the legal cursor types to use in the
buttpcx, cursor and touch commands:
	arrow, cross, watch, hand, right, left, 
	turnright, turnleft

2.00, Build 16, Tuesday, November 30, 1999, 4:30:11 PM
- Changed the input command to allow spaces.

2.00, Build 15, Monday, November 22, 1999, 8:51:30 AM
- Added code to try and prevent clipping of audio clips. When jumping around a lot,
on slower machines, the first second of a clip would sometimes get dropped. Now we
will wait for a fraction of a second when starting clips to let QuickTime catch up.

2.00, Build 14, Tuesday, November 16, 1999, 10:15:26 AM
- Fixed \w and \m.

2.00, Build 13, Friday, November 12, 1999, 4:47:48 PM
- Made "contains" operator case insensitive.

2.00, Build 12, Friday, November 12, 1999, 3:06:22 PM
- Changed the behavior of _INCR_X so that it will have the greatest
	X value of a multi-line text statement, not the last one.

- Ignore the Mac-only newline character sequence, \m.

2.00, Build 11, 
- Added new variables:
	_BitDepth - set to the bit depth of the screen
	_ResX - Set to the horizontal resolution of the screen
	_ResY - Set to the vertical resolution of the screen

- New origin variables and command.
	There are two new variables that track the origin of a card
	or macro:
		_OriginX - is the X part
		_OriginY - is the Y part
	These are logically read-only variables. If you write to them,
	you will change their value but will not change the actual 
	origin of the card or macro.
	There is also a new command, ResetOrigin. This can be used to
	set the origin back to (0, 0) by not using a parameter: (resetorigin)
	It can also be used to set the origin of the current card or macro by
	passing in a point: (resetorigin 10 10)

- Added a new variable, _INCR_X, which will track the horizontal edge of the
	bounding rectangle of a text command, just as _INCR_Y does in the vertical
	direction.

2.00, Build 10, Thursday, November 04, 1999, 9:35:48 AM
- The offscreen buffer was not being correctly blasted to 
the screen before or after showing a movie that has its own
rectangle (using playqtrect).

2.00, Build 9, Wednesday, November 03, 1999, 5:14:56 PM
- The volume level of movies playing from CD was incorrectly
being set too low. Playing from the hard disk had the correct
volume. Weird one.

2.00, Build 8, Tuesday, November 02, 1999, 12:38:04 PM
- The rewrite command was not working. The temporary file was
never being copied back into the original file. This has been 
fixed.

- Audio files were not being correctly terminated with the ESC
key.

2.00, Build 7, Friday, October 29, 1999, 11:26:19 AM
- The _system built-in variable had long strings in it to describe the 
system. These have been changed to the following:
	Win95 - Windows 95
	Win98 - Windows 98
	WinNT4 - Windows NT version 4
	Win2000 - Windows 2000
	Win32 - Unknown member of the Windows 95 family
	WinNT - Unknown member of the Windows NT family
	Win - Anything else

- Changed the cursor behavior so that the explicit cursor command will
make the cursor stay visible even when there are not touchzones present.
A cursor command without a parameter (e.g. (cursor)) will reset the cursor
back to the default arrow and will no longer force it to be visible when
touchzones aren't present.

2.00, Build 6, Wednesday, October 27, 1999, 4:11:46 PM
- The name of the debug engine has been changed to 5L_d.exe to distinguish
it from the release engine (5L.exe). I don't know why I made them the same
in the first place.

- Implemented a new command: cursor. It takes one parameter, the name
of a cursor to display. If no parameter is given then the arrow cursor
is used. The valid constants are the same as for the buttpcx and touch
commands: up, down, right, left, backup, hand, arrow, cross, watch
syntax: (cursor [constant])

- Change cursor support in buttpcx and touch to be backward compatible
with existing scripts. In both cases, if a valid cursor is not found
in the place where it should be in the script then script processing
will continue with the second command (and optional picture for touch).
	
2.00, Build 4
	- cursors
		- touchzones now support an optional cursor to be displayed when
			the mouse is over the touchzone
			the following contants are now supported:
				up, down, right, left, backup, hand, arrow, cross, watch
			these constants can be used in the touch and buttpcx commands
			as follows:

			(touch L T R B cmd [cursor [pict [X Y]]])
			(buttpcx pict X Y header text cmd [cursor [sec_cmd]])

			the cursor constant is optional and will always default to hand
			
				
	- better CD detection
		- the installer no longer must figure out the CD drive for the engine and
			put it in the registry or Win.INI file

2.00, Build 3

	- QuickTime 4 support
	- looping audio support
	- more graphics formats supported:
		- Bitmap (*.bmp) 
			- this is currently the only format that can
				be used for palettes (loadpic pal or loadpal)
			- this is currently the only format that can
				be used with matte
		- QuickDraw picture (*.pic)
		- PNG (*.png)
		- ...and others
	- 24-bit offscreen buffers so that palette matching does not
		need to be done except in 8-bit mode
	- much of the engine has been rewritten or reorganized so
		full testing should be done on existing programs to 
		ensure that they still work

	Known problems:
		- a file named temp5l.xxx is created on a rewrite command
			and is not subsequently deleted
		
   

	

